# MIDST - White Box Multi Table

Welcome to the Membership Inference over Diffusion-models-based Synthetic Tabular data (MIDST) challenge of SaTML 2025! 

In this task, you will evaluate the **resilience of the synthetic tabular data generated by diffusion models** against white-box membership inference attacks on a multi table dataset.


## Task Details

The generative models are developed on the training data set to generate synthetic data. They are expected to learn the statistics without memorizing the individual data. To evaluate this promise, membership inference attacks assess whether the model distinguishes between the training data set and a holdout data set that is derived from the same distribution as the training set.

In this task, your goal is to perform Black Box MIA on the diffusion-model-based [ClavaDDPM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.17724) synthesis for relational data. Each instantiation of ClavaDDPM is trained on a subset of the multi table [Berka](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marceloventura/the-berka-dataset) dataset. We include an implementation of this model with a dedicated directory in the [MIDST Models](https://github.com/VectorInstitute/MIDSTModels) repository. In each directory, there is a README file that provides an overview of the topic, prerequisites, and notebook descriptions.

Given the synthesis algorithm and output for all the tables in the Berka dataset, you are expected to perform MIA on challenge points selected from the Transaction table. You can use the other tables as auxiliary information in your attack development, or ignore them.

The *Account* table  is used as  the anchor table for selecting training data set and holdout data set pairs from the Transaction table. For example, if we use account numbers 1 to 10 for training a model, we select the m/2 member challenge points from their children -- rows in the Transaction table that correspond to these 10 accounts , and m/2 non-member challenge points from the Transaction rows that corresponds to the rest of the accounts.

## Getting Started

We have provided a [starter kit](https://github.com/VectorInstitute/MIDSTModels/tree/main/starter_kits)  that showcases creating a baseline attack and making a submission to this competition. This is a great place to start.
